# Study Abroad: A Horror Story
This digital narrative was made as part of a class called "Experiments in Digital Story-Telling" at the University of Sheffield. The main goal of the project was to implement minimal game-like elements that create cognitive ludicity and encourage readers to engage with the text closely. 

## Cognitive ludicity
Astrid Ensslin describes different kinds of ludicity, or "playfulness", in her 2014 text *Literary Gaming*. She defines cognitive ludicity as a type of literary play that involves "mostly cognitive reading strategies, such as solving word puzzles or whodunit riddles, engaging in intertextual association, and mapping allegorical meaning onto one’s own reality." I experienced this kind of ludicity when playing games from the Ace Attorney series. They are mostly visual novels, but to solve mysteries and progress through the story, the reader has to raise objections and present the right evidence at the right time. Presenting wrong evidence can make you lose "hit points", and at times the game features minigames such as dusting for fingerprints. These elements make the reader intl more of a player, but they do not take away from the narrative. The contrary is true: they encourage players to pay attention to the text!

This effect is what I was interested in exploring in my project. On the spectrum of digital texts, my project lies on the end which is mostly made to be read, and not played, while the other end of the spectrum features texts that have many game-like elements and perhaps are more game than narrative. Ensslin calls this the "L-L spectrum".

I aimed to use minimal game-like elements to encourage readers to engage with the story, inspired by the Ace Attorney series. Two main structures came out of this effort: An endless cycle that the reader can only escape by reading closely, and a maze structure that the reader can only navigate if they found all the right information from the text.

## Module booking
Readers encounter their first obstacle when booking modules. If one were to ignore the text and simply select arbitrary buttons, it would take a long time to proceed with the story, since the system is rigged to only allow two specific modules to be booked. The e-mail responses gradually clarify that only two 4-credit modules and two 6-credit modules still have space, and that the latter two must be booked to fulfil the 12-credit requirement. In this way, this e-mail section creates a cycle that can only be broken by closely reading the text and through trial and error while booking the modules.

I found that this element of cognitive ludicity was rather easy to solve for readers but worked well and as intended. A positive effect is that readers not just have to read the text of the narrative, but also have to become acquainted with the purposefully nonsensical system of module booking. Since the narrative uses this nonsensical system for humor and to criticize real module booking procedures, the game-like aspect here helps the narrative achieve its desired effect as well. In this way, a ludic element can make a text more engaging and simultaneously help reinforce its textual effect.

## Finding your room
Another idea for an element of cognitive ludicity was to have the main character navigate a confusing web-like structure in which they have to find the room of their first lecture. It would be built in a way that makes it near impossible to find the correct room if the reader had not paid attention to all relevant parts of the text, which would be strategically placed in the parts of the narrative leading up to this challenge. 

Here, I encountered a problem. Ideally, the web would be as confusing as possible, leading “lazy” readers towards certain doom. However, week one in its current state has four buildings that contain a total of 42 floors, which in turn each contain 6-20 rooms. This would mean that there are around 500 room descriptions to be written to construct these buildings. This is quite impractical, especially considering the time constraints of this project. Therefore, I opted to fill the building and room descriptions dynamically. 

Each time a player enters a building (/11), a predetermined amount of text elements (here floor titles) are placed in the website, which are equipped with a link to /12, which represents a floor. The website then remembers which building and floor the user is in and when the user opens /12, places text elements into the floors that link to individual rooms. Finally, each room is an individual page, and the room pages are randomly selected for each floor. This generation process allowed me to create a hierarchical structure with an arbitrary number of buildings and floors but only about 30 room descriptions. 

In my case, this means that it is likely that a reader encounters rooms multiple times. However, this is most likely to happen to readers that do not have all the information they need yet. By randomizing the selection of floors, and varying their designations between “floors” and “levels”, this generative approach allowed me to create an experience that is even more confusing to a misinformed reader than a traditional hypertext. 

The reader first obtains their room number (45957) after the booking process. During the “welcome week”, they can find new information about the building. Finally, while navigating the buildings and floors in “week one”, they encounter room titles that are abbreviated, which means that it is necessary to translate the information from page 6 into abbreviated form as well. Finally, there is a “fake room” that informs the player that the real room is on floor G. This room can appear in any building, but the real room LH45957 can only be found on floor G of the Lurchins building. Thus, this hint will lead to frustration for those readers who are in the incorrect building but have the correct room number, and it will lead to the solution for those readers that are in the correct building.

## Intertextuality
While this was not my main goal, this narrative is influenced by and makes references to a variety of other texts, which also enables cognitive ludicity according to Ensslin.

Firstly, as detailed so far, some basic mechanics are informed by the Ace Attorney series. Beyond that, the text adresses the reader as "you", which is traditional for text adventures such as *Colossal Cave Adventure* or *Zork*. There is also a refernce to Grues hidden in the text, borrowing a monster from *Zork*. Another inspiration are the dog pictures that readers can find, which are inspired by the simplistic makeup and absurdism of [*An Airport for Aliens Currently Run By Dogs*](https://www.theguardian.com/games/2021/jun/02/an-airport-for-aliens-currently-run-by-dogs-review-surrealist-humour-in-ruff-packaging). The building names are roughly based on the "East vs. West College Bowl" sketches by Key and Peele.

Because the text was made in a class about digital narratives and hypertexts, it also bears similarities with an example text we read: [Charmin' Cleary](http://www.eastgate.com/Charmin/). Study Abroad does use a web-like structure like Charmin' Cleary, but it's more of an obstacle than a tool for meaning-making. Lastly, the somewhat whimsical and magical school was inspired by magical places such as Hogwarts, where stairs move around, leading to random rooms like in Study Abroad, and where students never know what they may find.